- Hello, YouTube. Hello, Max.
- Hey, happy to be on the show.
- Yeah, happy to have you here.
Let's go ahead and kick this thing off.
And just before we do, people out there listening live,
please throw out some comments, questions.
We'll try to make them part of the show.
And with that, let's get started.
Max, welcome to Talk By The Enemy.
- Well, thank you.
This is exciting to be here.
Love to talk about Apache Superset.
So hit me up.
- Yeah, it's quite the thing that you've created
and it looks like it's really going strong.
So we're gonna talk about tools
for data exploration in general,
and then we'll dive in and focus on Superset,
which is what you've created.
So I'm really excited to do that.
- Excited to do it too.
I've been kind of baiting and kind of swimming
in this old world of data, data orchestration,
exploration, visualization for the past 20 years or so.
So that's been really my focus.
So I should have a lot to say about everything
related to this space.
- Yeah, fantastic.
And you've got a lot of experience
at many of the big tech companies
that people would think of as having lots
of interesting data to look at.
And so we can dive into that
just a bit at the beginning here.
But before we get to any of those things,
let me kick it off with the beginning question.
How'd you get into programming, Python,
and all these things?
- Okay, yes, I did a decline of an associate degree
back around in the late 90s.
So that kind of says about how long I've been doing this,
but I never finished it too.
So I never finished and got my actual diploma for it too.
So I got into an internship to join a company
called Ubisoft.
So it's a video game company,
is one of the major video game companies out there.
And I went on to my first internship
and never looked back and never finished a program.
So that's where my career started.
And this program was like very, it's called a Technic on Informatics.
I'm from Quebec City originally, so I grew up speaking French and that was a program in French.
And it's a technical program.
The goal of the program was to send technicians as they call them,
people that are very technical, really focused,
and then give them the skills that they need to be effective, joining companies.
So some programming, some data modeling,
a little bit of SQL,
and then really like the skills that you need
to get started and start coding,
not necessarily thinking about like computer science
and like data structures, like much more like,
- Right, right, right.
- What do you need to get started?
And that-
- Let me interrupt you for just a second there
and just, we can maybe talk just a bit about this.
I feel like a lot of people looking in from the outside
feel like, oh, I need a computer science degree
in order to do X, Y, or Z, whatever it is,
create APIs, create a business,
do data science or whatever.
And so much of the focus of CS degree
seems to be on algorithms, on operating systems.
And while those are really good to know,
they're not necessarily the skills you sit down and go,
let me remember my algorithms things.
Like you just call a function on a data structure
or let me remember my operating system stuff.
Like you just run the code.
It's helpful to have that,
but I don't feel like it's that necessary.
I know people out there listening to think,
oh, I've got to go get a CS degree
or I'm not going to do anything, right?
- Yeah, I think the bootcamp,
I've been told like flip that upside down to say like,
oh, now all you need is the technical skills
to get started to, I don't know, build an app,
and then you don't need those fundamentals
or maybe the premise that you need them later.
I think there needs to be some balance there.
So the CS approach,
let's start with the foundation and kind of how we got here
and then the rest should follow.
I don't think that's right.
'Cause to me, you don't really add that curiosity
about how you got there until you've been a practitioner.
So to me, I'm like, hey, teach people the skills
they need to be successful and useful to employers.
It seems like the way that university in general
or education should be oriented towards.
Like let's teach people the skills they need
to contribute effectively to the market.
And then I think maybe the CS constructs
is something you would learn,
that wisdom you would build as you learn.
- Some of you would pick it up
and some of you are like, I really need to know.
I've been doing this for a year now.
I need to know how this thing works.
And you'll dive into it, right?
But when you're motivated and you kind of,
you have that experience already, yeah.
- Yes, it's like when you have to solve the problem,
certain problems, you know, and then maybe at that point,
I don't know if you're writing a bunch of SQL
and you're building a lot of data structure,
maybe you need to understand like data modeling construct.
And that's a good time to go and understand the history
of, you know, the different approaches to data modeling,
but maybe you don't start from the theory, right?
- Yeah, yeah.
- But yes, so like going back to your question,
so I, so then I joined the,
so I was a web developer kind of building internal apps
for like a year and then very quickly I got into data
and got into building data warehouse at Ubisoft
and then using the business intelligence kind of toolkit
to build all sorts of reports, dashboard,
kind of self-service things so people could consume data.
So very quickly got into that.
And it's a little bit later that I learned,
I started doing more scripting.
So when I joined Yahoo in 2007,
I believe that was like the birth of Hadoop
and Yahoo had some pearl, you know,
so I learned a script a little bit
and kind of interpreted languages more.
And then by the time I think I started building
more website for personal projects.
So learned a bunch of Python there
and played a lot with Django.
And by the time I joined Facebook in 2012,
I knew Python very well.
And then that became kind of my main language,
and that's really what we use internally
for a lot of things at Facebook.
And that just became like more and more
the established kind of language
for everything data related right around that time.
- Yeah.
What a cool set of experience you are at.
Was it Lyft, Airbnb?
- Yeah, Facebook, Yahoo.
- Yeah, a lot of, yeah.
So Ubisoft is interesting.
They're a Canadian company, right?
- They are a French company.
So their headquarters is in Montreux,
like very, like next to Paris,
or I think they were actually like from Bretagne,
so Brittany somewhere in France.
- Okay.
- But they're a French company.
They have a huge studio in Montreal though.
There's like amazing tax breaks in Quebec and Canada.
And they decided to build like one of the biggest,
if not the biggest video game studio
in the world in Montreal.
So that's where I started my career.
- Well, the reason I'm bringing it up is I wanna ask you
about what it's like working at a game company
versus a more traditional,
I don't know if you call Yahoo traditional, but like.
- Yeah.
- A lot of people dream of being at these game companies
and that's even maybe why they got into programming.
And I don't know, tell us what your experience was like.
- Yeah, so it's a dated experience, right?
I don't know what it is.
I left Ubisoft in 2007.
So it's like a pretty dated, it's 15 years ago.
I can say about like what it was like at the time.
It's a mix of like super fun.
It was like super young, a bit bro-y too,
in a lot of ways, like very masculine environment.
Also like, you know, some of it is because it's,
you know, 15 to 20 years ago.
I think it was a slightly different world.
And a lot of things that were maybe dubious back then
are definitely not okay anymore.
I mean, I think there's that culture people talk about,
I think Electronic Arts has been famous for that.
And a lot of the big video game companies
is having like these work environments
that were fairly like, you know, dubious in some ways.
But I think Ubisoft was a great place to be,
I think at the time.
And I think like maybe one of the better ones
kind of bringing it back to where it should be
and ahead of its time, perhaps.
But my experience at Ubisoft was so interesting,
it was difficult for me to talk about what is Ubisoft
'cause I work in three different studios, Montreal, Paris.
I was in Montreal for about a year
until I was in Ubisoft Paris for about three years.
And then Ubisoft San Francisco for another three years.
So the three different offices were vastly different.
And I think the things that kind of plagued
the video game business, like long hours, kind of low pay.
I think that definitely existed.
- Like grinding people out sort of thing, yeah.
- Yeah, kind of like, it's never enough,
a lot of crunch time all the time.
And yeah, and then kind of a great place
maybe to start your career, but then as people mature,
they tend to go other places.
(indistinct)
I think it has changed so much,
like the whole world culture has changed a lot.
- Sure.
- Yeah, as you have relationships and families
and you want to see them, things like that.
- Yeah, yeah, seriously.
You're gonna age out of working out all the time
or just by necessity too.
- Yeah, yeah, exactly.
All right, well, let's kick off our conversation
focusing on data exploration, I think.
So when I think about data exploration,
not from a developer or data science,
but in like the super broad sense,
you know, I don't know what comes to mind for you,
but Excel, I feel like most people are like,
I've got some data,
I need to maybe think about it a little bit more analytically
than just a bunch of numbers.
Let me throw it in Excel and see what I can do with it.
- Yeah, I mean, I think Excel is like a super open,
if you think about like Excel as a playground
or as a framework, it's super open-ended,
you can do so much in there.
And there's not a lot of constraints, right?
So the constraint that exists in an Excel file
are the ones that you make for yourself.
And then maybe one constraint is like,
it used to be like, I forgot what it was,
but it's like 65,000 rows for a long time.
And I think now there's no such limits anymore,
but there's still like a limit of how much your laptop
is gonna be able to, in terms of the size of a pivot table.
At the past companies where I was at,
there's no way you could bring the dimensionality
and kind of the raw data that you need in Excel.
So you need to kind of prepare and extract
of the stuff you're gonna play with.
First, you gotta be in Excel.
And then there's like things that,
BI historically has not been really good at
is what if analysis, creating different scenarios,
doing forecasting.
So I think like that is an area
where spreadsheet dominate will keep dominating, right?
If you want to add certain things to variables
and change the numbers and see how other like,
you know, charts and models are.
So modeling kind of is a really good case,
I think for Excel.
Then, you know, the downside is like,
oh, how do you collaborate on these things?
And like the version is kind of a mess
where you end up with like a million files
and share point or--
- Even the files are binary,
so you can't dip them or anything easily, right?
- Oh yeah, they're not in source control
and then you don't know,
there's no introspection as to how things got there.
They're a mix of data that are from a source
and then kind of made up stuff sometimes,
like, I'm gonna tweak this, I'm gonna change that.
So you don't know what is the list
of all the changes that were applied to the source data.
So I don't know, I think it's a good tool,
but it's definitely incomplete, right?
It's part of the feedback will always be.
- Yeah, I don't bring it up as a recommendation.
I bring it up as I feel like a lot of people
are starting here.
And so like, how can we look around
and see maybe what is a better option out there?
- Yeah, and it's, I think if you've used Excel a lot
in your organization, or personally,
I think people discover, kind of hit their head
on the limitations and the problems
that come with such an open framework pretty quickly.
- Yeah, the audience, Ollie says,
my local data extraction people default to Excel
and they seem limited by the number of sheets available
in a workbook.
Yeah.
- Well, I guess now that it's not the number of lines
in a file, I guess it's the number of sheets.
- The number of sheets, that's right.
So, you know, sort of stepping up a level from this,
I mean, I feel like maybe heading down
a more structured way, like for one of the problems
with Excel is how do I talk to databases and APIs
and like, how do I bring in other more live data
It's really, really limited.
I know there's like BI stuff, but not really.
Sort of the next step up, what do you think?
Is that Jupyter or where, like where's the next level here?
- We're talking about consumption now in some ways,
but I feel like in a lot of ways
we should be talking about data engineering too.
So where is your data, right?
Is the first question.
So first, your data is not, does not,
or maybe some of the data lives in Excel,
but that's not where your data lives nowadays.
and the SaaS application you use, right?
So the modern, like just even any startup
or company uses hundreds of SaaS applications,
you know, CRMs, applicant tracking systems,
you know, GitHub and just a million different data sources.
And it feels like one of the first thing you need to do
is to bring that data together, right?
And in a central place or into some sort of like inside,
you know, either data marts or data warehouse,
I think like an early construct
that you need as an organization,
because data is most useful when it's put alongside
the other data you have in your organization.
It does make sense to hoard all this data
and bring it all to a central place
if you want to do consumption.
Otherwise consumption is going to be
kind of a stitching story, right?
So let's say you're in Excel or you're in a,
you're in the local database or whatever it might be,
the first thing you have to do is bring
the things that are related in one place,
so you can do that visualization consumption analysis.
How do you join on a thing that's partly in an API
and partly in Airtable or something?
Right, even if you-- let's say we take a notebook,
so super open-ended, what is a notebook?
It's just like, it's a script with REPL
and where you can run chunks of the script sequentially,
and you have a persistent kernel or interpreter
kind of supporting what you're doing at any point in time.
But the first thing, if you don't have a data warehouse or your data all in one
place, you're going to try to do some data engineering is probably the first
thing you're going to do within your notebook is to say, how do I get the data
that I need from the source or sources that are interesting to me and the
notebook, you know, will enable you for sure to do this, but then is it, you
can other people build on top of the work that you did in a notebook?
Probably not, or not as easily as you'd want them to.
So I think the data warehousing kind of approach of saying,
"Hey, let's bring the data that we need in our organization
to a central place and try to stitch it together there
so it can then best be used for consumption and analysis,"
is still a very important step in the process.
Sure, I totally agree.
And, you know, Jupyter and JupyterLab
gets a lot of the mind share,
but there are many, many choices.
I interviewed Sam Lau, and he did a research project
where they categorized over 60 different
notebook environments, where Jupyter was one of them.
It's just, it's off the hook.
So there's a lot of choices out there and so on,
but, you know, let's focus on SuperSet.
You know, it's--
- I'd love to talk about that,
It's like why do we need 60 different notebooks? I feel like I missed a step of like the evolution of notebooks
I'm very familiar with Jupyter to play Jupyter hub
At Airbnb a while ago, but then you know followed hex a little bit
That's one of the players in space also followed so at lift we kind of built our own little notebook
service
Right. So we had a a corinne's cluster. We could kind of say like I want this docker image base for my notebook
You'd pick like I wanted a IML package or I want you know
You know, basically what's the base for your notebook?
And then you could pick some hardware like any GPUs or any big machine or small machine
Then we'd spin up these environments for people but try to understand like what are the different like why is there 60 notebooks?
And what's what are different flavors?
How do they all differentiate from each other
is dubious question.
- Yeah, it was crazy.
I was kind of blown away by this.
And if you look, they have,
they moved their PDF.
It seems like it always differs on some axis.
Like, well, we want more collaboration like Google Docs
or we want it to run into a different place like PyIodive.
We want that to run in the front end
rather than with like some sort of Python in the browser.
sort of Python in the browser.
And like, there's just all these crazy variations.
So I think there's a lot,
I just kind of only highlight that to point out,
like, it's not just Jupyter.
There's like a ton of these things
where Jupyter is the main environment
that kind of lives in a web browser
where people go and explore data.
And I feel like Superset is a pretty modern,
interesting player in that space of many choices.
Yeah, happy to talk about SuperSet too,
and try to introduce it in the context
of what we're talking about before.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
- But think about SuperSet. - Tell us about SuperSet.
- Yeah, so SuperSet is essentially very much
like a data exploration, dashboarding, visualization tool
that's very much like catering to organization, right?
So we, SuperSet solves like challenges
or the problem space of data consumption for entire teams.
So we're not necessarily focused on people who know Python
or people who are data scientists or data analysts
or data engineers, like we very much catered
to the entire team.
And the idea there is to have a single place
to explore data, visualize it, interact with it,
share, create dashboard, and then we have a SQL IDE
on top of that to, I think like on the GitHub page,
I don't know here if we have good screenshots to that.
I think an image is worth a thousand word.
And I know not everyone is like looking
at what we're looking at,
but here we have the drag and drop kind of explore.
I think the screenshot is a little bit dated.
There might be a little bit more recent on the,
on a GitHub, on the GitHub page too,
where you can see like,
we have this drag and drop interface,
very similar to what people are familiar with
in business intelligence, right?
where you have access to your dataset,
and you drag and drop your metrics and dimensions
and pick your visualization type,
get to the exact chart that you want.
You can assemble these charts into interactive dashboards
with dynamic filtering on the dashboard
and expose that to business users, right?
So they can explore on their own,
they can create their own dashboard,
they can answer their own questions.
Yeah, this sort of--
>> It lives in a really, really interesting space.
That's why I brought up Excel as well,
is because Excel is not meant for programmers,
but it's meant for people
who are trying to do serious stuff with it.
They maybe they'll write equals and they'll
find a formula they can put in there,
or they'll do a VLOOKUP,
or they're trying to go more than just like,
I need a grid of stuff.
While Jupyter, those things are awesome,
Super set feels like it caters a little bit more to like a power user type of person
that has Python extension capabilities, but you don't have to start as a Python developer to get into it.
Is that right?
Actually, not right. Like so. So the premise is like, you don't need to have any Python skills.
The skills that may help if you want to go deeper inside Super set is, you know, knowing some SQL.
But knowing SQL is not a requirement. So think about like,
If you think about Tableau, people familiar with Tableau or Looker, right, that's really
the space that we're in.
So it's platformy in a sense that, okay, you can access your database connection, you interact
with datasets.
But then, you know, think about the experience of someone just consuming a dashboard.
You open a dashboard, it's a collection of chart, maybe it's titled like financial forecast
for 2023 and you really need little technical skills to use.
You need business knowledge mainly to consume a dashboard.
These dashboards are interactive,
so that means you'll be able to apply a filter
on a specific quarter, a specific customer type of market,
and then interact with the dashboard in that way.
But primarily, the dashboard interface caters
to the business user or anyone that is trying to understand.
- I see, almost like a more of a BI type of a user person.
- It is, yeah, like it is a BI tool.
Super Set is a BI tool to be clear.
It's a BI tool that maybe is modern in many ways
and assumes, like, if you wanna get the way you get deeper,
say in the Explorer, and I don't know if you can click
on the upper left on the Explorer.
So here for context, we're looking at more
the drag and drop place in SuperSet
where you pick metrics and dimension
and visualization type you wanna look at.
So it's your typical kind of tableau like interface, right?
And here, you can essentially just drag and drop,
but if you do know SQL,
you're able to create your own metrics
and express them as SQL expressions, for instance.
Calculated metrics.
- Exactly, you can have computed columns
and aggregation and stuff like that, right?
Exactly. So you'll define metrics as SQL aggregatable expressions.
So sum of this divided by the count, this thing of that,
and it has to be a valid SQL expression.
But yeah, so for people who are a little bit more technical,
maybe understand the data better and have a little bit of knowledge of SQL,
they don't have to, but they can use SQL
as part of that exploration experience.
For instance, if you pick a filter,
here you'll be able to pick a column,
an operator like CustomerID in,
and then go pick the customer IDs in a GUI type setting.
But you can also go to the little SQL editor in a filter popover,
and then write a more complex SQL expression if you want to.
We wanted to not necessarily bury SQL as we feel like more and more people are learning SQL.
It's becoming the lingua franca of data.
We feel like there's gonna be a certain percentage
of the workforce in the next decade
that's gonna become more data literate
and that's in part by learning SQL
and understanding data set, data structures
and what data sets in their particular organizations
are and are made out of.
- Right, and by using SQL,
it means you can connect to different data sources
and you can connect to live data.
- That's right.
- Yeah, some kind of export or whatever,
you just connect to Postgres
or you connect to whatever and then go from there.
- Exactly, yeah.
So the way things work in SuperSight,
so you go and create your database connection
or connections to whatever,
SQL speaking databases you use as a data warehouse,
as a data store.
Things that are really popular right now
are the big cloud data warehouse,
Snowflake, BigQuery, but there's still a lot of Postgres
and MySQL, even for analytical use cases, right?
And people, so you connect to that database
and then you go and you have different ways to get started.
One is to go and start exploring the tables
that exist already, tables or views,
or you have this SQL IDE that you're kind of pointing
to now too, where, so it's possible for you to go
and step down to that level that's more interacting
the SQL level, and here you can also create datasets,
and create what we call virtual datasets
that are essentially views for people
who are familiar with the database construct of a view.
And that allows people to go and explore
that dataset, a virtual dataset,
assemble dashboard, create visualization,
collaborate with others, share links on Slack,
and annotate, add comments, that kind of thing.
I want to dive into the data sources more,
but I want to make sure that we highlight this for people listening who don't know about SuperSet.
Two things, and you've hinted pretty strongly at one already.
First of all, when I go to Excel,
I don't see a fork me on GitHub.
I mean, I'm looking, I don't see anywhere on this page that it says fork me on GitHub.
Over on Apache/SuperSet on GitHub.
Yeah, clearly, right there you can.
So this is one, it's open source and two, very popular.
It's almost got 50,000 stars and 10,000 forks.
Like that's Django flask level of popularity
for people keeping score, I guess.
- Yeah, it's right up there.
Depending on, you know, stars are just like
some sort of proxy for hype or interest, right?
And fork are like, it's a good proxy
for how many people have kind of, you know,
wanted to play with a code, which is also a proxy
for a different kind of hype and interest.
But yeah, it's up there, you know,
probably in the top 50 to 100, you know,
open source projects of all time
in terms of like value delivered and just popularity.
Yeah, which is like way beyond what I expected,
you know, in 2015 when I started a project.
Same with Apache Airflows.
I also started at Apache Airflow.
That's also like very, very, very popular
and used in like tens of thousands of organizations.
I think it's similar.
It speaks to the scale and just how,
like the problem space is super validated.
Like everyone needs to visualize data, explore data,
create dashboard, write SQL, see results, visualize results.
So very popular, definitely the leading open source project
in this space of call it business intelligence,
data consumption.
And it's a very mature project, right?
So it's used by thousands of people at places like Airbnb,
Microsoft, Tesla, people have forked the project
or use it super heavily internally.
That in the wild section that you're pointing to,
which is kind of trying to list out the people
who use the product is very limited kind of version,
the tip of the iceberg type thing of the people
who self-reported using the product.
- Yeah, yeah, so you have a link in the GitHub repo
called In The Wild, and it just lists out
under these different verticals,
you'll find these companies using them,
which is, you know, on one hand,
it doesn't matter if these other companies
are using it or not, but then if you're trying
to sell it to your organization
or trying to decide if you can trust it,
like, well, you know, if you're in education,
it works for brilliant.org, and it works for Udemy
in the Wikimedia Foundation, maybe it'll work for you.
You know, like that's a, it's a better validation, right?
- Yeah, and then, you know, especially looking at like,
those are people that, you know,
open a pull request to add their name
to this like hidden file on their repo, right?
It shows out like tip of the iceberg it is.
But I think one thing I've been telling people
on in the context of this podcast is it makes sense.
It's like, if you want to contribute to open source,
there's a lot of ways you can contribute.
And the obvious one is to, you know,
use the software, open a pull request.
but the less obvious one is to let the world know,
like the most basic and the very minimum
maybe when your organization is getting significant value
from an open source project, just to be public about it,
let the world know, you know, if you work at Uber
and you get tons of value from, I don't know, Gatsby
or like whatever, let the world know that you do.
And that's a vote of confidence
and it speaks to the scale of the community
and kind of to work for others,
it probably worth it.
You know, the chances it's gonna work for you
are much greater.
- Yeah.
Another thing that's interesting about the GitHub repo,
source code really, I guess,
is what I'm thinking of.
Two things here.
One is it's super active, right?
If you go in here and you look around,
like sometimes you'll see,
you know, last change two years ago or whatever, right?
But last change seven hours ago,
couple of days ago, two days ago, right?
There's a lot of activity here, right?
- Yeah, it's super intense in terms of like
how many people work on a project.
There's like a contributors tab.
You might be able to click on to,
on the right there, click contributors.
So 832 people have contributed to the aid.
And that's just like code contributions.
Here it's possible to see the history of who's contributed.
Something that's interesting is like
we distribute on PyPI,
but, and the project was largely Python code.
It looks like we have too much data and the GitHub UI is struggling to render.
We're going to break GitHub.
Sorry, GitHub.
Yeah, we're going to break GitHub right now because we have too many contributions.
Here you can kind of see the scale contribution.
You can also see how I've been selling into my CEO role and less in a code contribution
type of role now.
But you can see how a bunch of people have contributed over time.
I was going to say, we decided to distribute on PyPI originally, and it was largely a Python
project from the get-go. But more and more, if you look at the code distribution, a lot of the
code is in TypeScript, JavaScript now, because the nature of the project is such a front-end
project. And something that's interesting about open source is we have seen less application
GUI type, up-to-stack type projects really succeeding at scale.
And SuperSet is definitely one of those,
like very much a front-end application type product that's open source.
And then succeeding at a massive scale too,
where typically in open source, we see libraries,
we see backends and frameworks, right?
Like being really massively successful.
but that was part of the reason that I really wanted to prove
that SuperSet and that open source can succeed up the stack too.
And we've been working very, very actively on that in this community.
Yeah, it's a super good point because it's clearly open source
is one on the frameworks and the libraries level.
But there's fewer examples of it creating beautiful user interface
experiences and types of applications.
Yeah, and I have a pretty good theory on that too,
like why is it the case that we've seen?
Why is it? What do you think?
Yeah, so I think like open source has been very much a playground for engineers, right?
Like the tool set and, you know, GitHub and Git and source control and the pull requests
and issues, like all of these things have been historically the way that engineers build software.
And it's been a little bit hostile to PMs and designers.
Not hostile, I've been like, oh, you know, actively hostile, but just it was not...
Not welcoming?
Yeah, or yeah, not, it's just built by engineers for engineers, like GitHub and Git was built by
engineers for engineers. And we never really thought of like, how do we include product
designers and product managers to the workflows there? And then the interest, I think a lot of
engineers add like this great image of open source and see it as an outlet for their careers. And
and they love the idea of working in the open.
That does not exist, that drive of working in the open
with PMs and designers.
So we've been thinking about how do we create,
enlarge our community and open up our community
to very much welcome PMs and product designers
as part of this community.
And it's been, I think we've made some headway
as we should blog about how we did this
in the SuperSet project, but we opened up
and we created some processes
where we also do design review,
we do product reviews,
that our PMs get together
with other people in the community
to kind of design beyond technical solutions.
- Yeah, there's a ton of visualizations here
for people who haven't seen it yet,
just visit the website
and you'll see right away,
this is primarily a visual tool,
the tool for visualizing data, right?
- Yeah, so it is like a GUI tool in a lot of ways,
but I think what's interesting too,
it's a GUI tool first, right?
So it's a BI tool in the sense that,
you know, a lot of what you do is point and click
and drag and drop and, you know, hit a save button.
But because we're open source, we also have,
we're pushing the APIs and SDKs very strongly too.
So it's probably the most platformy BI tool around
because of our open source roots.
- Sounds cool. - We started from the ground up.
So say the visualization is a plugin system,
so you can create your own visualizations
and distribute them.
The backend and Python is like,
the coverage of the API is like 100%, right?
Or it's like all over.
So everything you can do in the GUI,
you can do as code too.
- Okay.
Yeah, right now the audience is asking,
does it expose an API to your data?
- Yes, and it should be in the docs, right?
So if you go to in the docs here,
somewhere in there, it should be maybe it's in the API
at the bottom there.
I don't know how well documented it is here.
It should be, it looks like it's not rendering right
on like 480 by 320 pixels.
(laughs)
- There you go.
Here we go, how's that?
- Oh, there you go.
So command minus to rescale this, but yeah.
So very good API coverage.
you know, and well-managed, you know, API behind the scenes.
- Yeah, it looks like you even exposed some directly,
some of the open API swagger type of documentation,
which you could maybe even auto-generate some stuff.
Does it have, does it have a pack?
Does it have like a library, a Python package
that talks to the API, anything along those lines?
- Yes, I forgot exactly what it was.
I think it's open API and then swagger.
Right, I think I set up the first version of that
a long time ago, but it's a self-documenting thing.
So if you put the right decorators
and the right doc strings, it self-documents.
I think we do Marshmallow too,
and other things to do like schema definition
of what can come in and out.
And that dictates, I think that's self-documenting too,
in terms of like the input and expected output schemas too.
So yeah, or it could be like Python 3,
like type annotations too,
I think it gets picked up properly, which is great.
Beyond that, there's more like there's JavaScript stuff.
There's a plugin.
I think if you were to Google a super set plugin examples,
you'll find all sorts of resources, maybe out of the...
- Oh, there's even a whole collection of them.
Yeah, look at that.
- Yes, it's managed in different ways.
- I didn't Google, I Kaggied it.
I don't know what the word for Googling with Kaggy is,
but there you go.
- Got it, yeah.
And we have a good blog post on the preset blogs.
If you go preset IO slash blog,
we have like how to get started
and write your first superset plugin.
That's much more like JavaScript.
So that's a hundred percent,
TypeScript, JavaScript front end code to build plugins.
It has to be, right?
You don't want to be in the backend
trying to figure out how to lay things out
or use the Python library to do interactive visualizations
doesn't work super well, so the plugin framework is all front-end code.
And then beyond that, there's more API, there's component libraries as part of SuperSend,
and there's much more than the REST API for the backend.
There's other SDKs and component libraries.
Yeah, so the first thing I wanted to point out about the source code and the GitHub repo
is just the popularity and all the contributors
and what not there.
The other is that this,
while not necessarily made for Python people
the way that Jupyter would be,
it's made for BI users,
but it is open source and in Python built on Flask
and tools like that, right?
And you talk about the extensions on the backend
and pieces along there.
So maybe talk about for people that wanna dig in
from a Python side, what can I find?
- Yeah, we could try to open a requirements folder
'cause at this point it's not even a requirements.txt file
here for people.
- You have a whole project for setting it up, okay.
- There are requirements subfolder.
- Yeah, yeah.
Oh, are you guys using pip-tools here?
- I believe it's pip-tools and pip compiles.
- I love working that way.
That's my way these days, it's great.
- Yeah, 'cause we need to pin the versions
And so we have the, for people that are not familiar with it,
usually define an in file that's like your version ranges,
and then you can kind of pick, compile your version.
And then that turns into like kind of frozen,
like libraries, like specific numbers.
So it's, you know, you can have like everything pinned out.
We use so much stuff here
and we use stuff that uses a lot of stuff.
So if you import, you know, just Flask,
like Flask itself is likely to import a bunch of things.
So once you kind of on, you kind of recurse
through that dependency tree and expand it.
It's a massive dependency tree on the Python side.
It's also a massive dependency tree on the JavaScript side.
- Oh yeah.
- Big application made out of, you know,
hundreds of open source packages
'cause we kind of need it all to build this full,
like this application.
So dependency management is a little bit of a struggle
when you manage such a big piece of software
that's just connected to everything.
- There's no joke, there's a lot of dependencies here.
So, but there's ways you can run it
without worrying too much about that, right?
- Yeah, I mean, you can definitely
just run the Docker container,
you can pip install superset,
there's a somewhat straightforward way
to set it up locally and get things going.
Yeah, it's kind of interesting how
building application nowadays,
if you think about the dependency tree that go behind any kind of solution
or application that's not just a library,
like library should have like very minimal requirements,
kind of dependency trees,
where this should be self-contained and kind of focused, I think.
But here, I think to build such a large scale application,
we just need to have a lot of dependencies.
And then these dependencies have often a fair amount of dependency.
I'm surprised to see that now we're looking at Click
for people not necessarily looking,
but just Click itself probably has a lot of its own sub-packages now too.
Exactly, and there's a lot of things that
want Click to be in your dependencies here.
I guess there's a... We'll talk about running in just a minute.
There's a lot of architectural layers at play here.
So you've got SuperSet, but you've also got Celery,
you've got Redis, you've got some database layers.
There's a lot of technology that people would know
working as a group that luckily Docker
just takes care of for us.
- Yeah, Docker, the Docker compose and, you know,
help try it.
So I think we have like a helm chart too.
I always, it's always important for me to keep it such
that you can kind of just pip install super set
and run a few commands and get it running locally.
So you don't need to have Redis out of the box
and Celery out of the box.
So it's similar to Airflow in that way
where you want it to have a very self-contained thing at first.
But then if you want to run any modern web app that
does serious work and solves some real problem,
it's likely that you need-- OK, you need to have web servers
and an application server.
But you need to have the whole front end stack, right?
Like something like webpack.
you probably have front-end infrastructure,
just on how you build your front-end,
it gets pretty complicated quickly.
Then you probably need async workers,
so all of a sudden you need something like Celery
and something like Redis as a message queue
to talk to the async workers.
Then you probably want to start caching some things,
so you need a caching back-end for certain things.
And then you need to support an open source,
you probably need to support different databases.
So some people might want to use MySQL as a backend
or Postgres or some more other things.
So then you need to like optionally support these things
through abstraction layers.
So it gets complicated fairly quickly.
- Yeah, sure does.
I was really cool though, that you can just pip install it
and there's a more lightweight version
without going through all the details.
Let's talk about getting going, get it running,
exploring it a bit and hosting it.
But before we do, I said like 15 minutes ago,
two quick comments before we talk about databases.
Let's just talk about the database thing real quick here.
Over here near the bottom,
obviously where your data comes from,
we opened this, I pointed out that Excel is bad
at getting data from different data sources.
People have operational data, they have data warehouses,
they have data lakes, whatever you call them,
things like this, right?
So there's a lot of different places
people are putting data.
Maybe just touch a bit on the database integration here.
- Yeah, and I think like in the context of this,
this Python podcast too,
so for us, we use SQLAlchemy very heavily.
So SQLAlchemy is a SQL toolkit first
and then an ORM built on top of it
and probably much more than that.
but the way that we support first,
I would say, the metadata database for SuperSet,
so in SuperSet, when you save dashboards,
save visualizations, save queries,
that goes to a metadata database,
and we tend to recommend Postgres and MySQL
as the backend for the app,
just to keep the state of the app somewhere
in a proper relational database, so that's one.
And then we connect to all these databases
is to do analytics on them, right?
And that's what we're looking at here,
the supported databases in the sense of like,
what can we build charts off of,
and what can we enable data exploration around of.
And then this is powered by SQLAlchemy.
So that means that anything that has a DB API driver
and a SQLAlchemy dialect,
and then maybe that's an opportunity to talk
a little bit more about the database abstraction
and the Python world,
since we have a Python centric audience.
So dbAPI as a spec is one of the peps out there.
I forgot the number of the dbAPI pep,
but I was like, you know, just a common interface
for all the databases in Python.
So that's called dbAPI and then SQLAlchemy,
this SQL toolkit knows how to speak certain dialects
and builds an ORM on top of things.
And this, yeah, so pep249,
So it came a little bit later in the story of Python.
I don't know, what's the number?
What's the latest PEP number?
I don't know.
- Oh, they're pretty high these days.
Although they seem to be kind of organized by concept.
But let's see, we've got some of the 8,000s here.
- Oh, okay.
So there's like some encoding.
- Kind of grouping.
Yeah, I'm not sure exactly what it is.
- The 3,000 are for a specific thing and the 8,000.
- I think so, but yeah, don't hold me to it.
- Yeah, I think so.
- Anyhow, but yeah, so what you need in order
to basically for a superset to connect
to any flavor of database is a viable DB API driver.
And once that's built, SQLAlchemy dialects,
SQLAlchemy dialects are fairly easy.
Like we've written a bunch of API drivers
and SQLAlchemy dialects in the past
and they're not that hard to implement.
So that means that pretty much anything
that speaks SQL out there,
we can talk to, essentially.
Yeah, so we've got the standard MySQL Postgres.
Microsoft SQL Server is probably a big one in the BI space
because a lot of enterprises are back with that.
But it also has more unique ones like Snowflake and Druid
and Google BigQuery and Firebird,
a lot of different places that people can...
Yeah, well, we see like, you know, in terms like the SuperSet community and then the preset
customer.
So I started a company three years ago that's essentially commercializing Apache SuperSet
and offering a managed service so you don't have to run it.
So we're on call, you're not on call.
There's a freemium to say if you want to try SuperSet, you can pip install SuperSet and
kind of struggle with Docker and all this stuff.
Or you can try it directly at preset so you can just like start for free and see if it
works for you.
then you can kind of postpone the decision of like,
do I want to run it on my own
or do I want to use a managed service
and kind of pay as I go instead?
But yeah, so what we see in terms of
what our customers use, so a lot of Snowflake,
a lot of BigQuery, these cloud data warehouses
kind of no brainer nowadays.
If you have a true analytical workload,
just put all your data and Snowflake, BigQuery.
And then there's still some Redshift
and there's still like all sorts of like,
database engines for whatever historical reasons
people have or they have constraints sometimes
to run something on premise or in their cloud
and then right now. - Right, absolutely.
So because it's open source, they can go and host it
until their heart's content,
or they can go SaaS style and work with you all.
- That's right, so for us, we do offer the managed service
as the freemium and pay as you go kind of per seat.
So it's like 20 bucks per user per month.
It's pretty straightforward and kind of easy to grow into
and you pay as you go.
And then we have something called the Managed Private Cloud.
So if you do want to run a managed service inside your cloud
because you don't want the data to leave,
maybe your data is not already in a cloud data warehouse,
maybe it's inside your VPC and you want to keep it there.
So we offer a service.
It's still a managed service
with a centralized control plane,
but that runs on your cloud.
So we do offer this and then you're always free
to run it on your own, right?
Like to, and there the question is like,
can, you have to think the math of like running
a piece of open source software versus,
like running on your own versus like paying a vendor,
like running Kafka or buying Confluent for instance,
or running Spark or Databricks
is whether you're interested in the bells and whistle
that the vendor uses.
And then the constraint you have around like quality
service and think about total cost of ownership.
So the reality is like running something like SuperSET at scale in your
organization, if you want the latest, greatest secure kind of patched up
a version of it is that it's, it's pretty expensive to the total cost of
ownership of open source is fairly high.
So often the vendors can do it at a better, better price and better quality.
to patch Celery and Redis and Memcache and databases
and your servers hosting them and keeping them all going.
It's non-trivial.
And then there's disaster recovery and failure.
And as soon as you were thinking,
well, maybe we should hire somebody to do this.
Then all of a sudden,
a paid service starts to sound pretty appealing, right?
- Oh yeah.
I mean, when you think about like what it really takes
to manage a piece of software
or collection of pieces of software,
like, you know, SuperSet and Kafka and Airflow and all these things.
And you want it to be state of the art, kind of latest, greatest version,
and kind of secured compliance, if compliance is a concern and all this stuff.
Generally, at least for smaller organizations, it makes tons of sense to,
like, you know, use, who's the best people to run the software reliably
is the people writing the software.
- Yeah.
- And, you know, even on things like, you know,
I preset, we have a multi-tenant version of SuperSET
that we run where you can't really have that
if you run it on your own.
So that means we, how much we pay per cycle
in terms of infrastructure cost is gonna be much cheaper
than what you can get to running SuperSET on your own.
So. - Sure.
Not every user is asking an active BI question all the time.
- That's right.
- You got extra resources to share.
- And then you provision for peak.
It's a little bit the same with infrastructure, right?
Like if you run a database server on your own,
you have to provision for peak access,
where if there's a cloud service,
then you have to provision the cloud vendor
as the provision for the total peak
across all the customers.
So there's tons of economies of scale there
and we pass that on to our customers.
- Cool.
All right, well, let's talk about maybe getting started
in just the first touch type of experience
before we run out of time here.
You have a nice doc that says,
installing and using Superset.
And I went for the easy way.
So on my Mac, I have Docker for Mac already set up,
which means I have Docker and Docker Compose.
And so basically that's clone the repo, the Superset repo.
- Right.
- Go in there and then just run Docker Compose pull
and then Docker compose up on a certain definition file,
configuration file.
- And then pray, there should be a comment that says,
pray and hope for the best, fix yourself a copy.
One thing that's really interesting is like,
and I'm sure a lot of other like open source leaders
can kind of relate to that is that no one agrees
on the best way to run something for production use cases,
for sandbox use cases and even in developer mode, right?
Like, so for me, I'm like, I hate Docker and Docker Compose
because I don't have enough control
and I'll tend to just kind of run my own set
of my own environment.
I run Teamux and I do my own builds
and I prefer adding more control
instead of trying to understand that abstraction layer
that Docker and Docker Compose is.
So there's an alternative, I think, documentation somewhere
and there's a big contributing MD
that's more geared towards people.
Like how do I run my setup
if I want to actually develop on the tool?
So somewhere on the SuperSet repo,
there's a computer contributing MD file that says,
here's if you wanna develop with Docker,
Docker Compose, you do this.
If you wanna develop using more kind of a different,
like more raw level, how to do things.
- Create your own virtual environment and go.
- Yeah, that's it.
And some people use PyEnv, some people prefer using like virtual and more directly.
So it's really hard to come up with a, we got a prescribed way to do it with a good documentation.
But then, you know, half of the people are going to go their own way.
Anyways, let's say Docker Compose here too, is like a lot of people prefer Helm charts for Kubernetes.
Right. So then we have Helm charts, we have Docker Compose construct, then we do have
other documentation as to how to do it.
But it's been really difficult to have
a very clear prescribed way to do it and then
maintain the different ways
individually and keep them all working.
>> Sure. As much as I'm not a huge fan
of developing code in Docker,
I do think this is a nice way for
a low effort first touch experience.
You're like, I just want to run it and log into
the web app and see how it feels and play with it.
and you get all the various moving parts,
or you get Celery and Redis and whatnot,
which is pretty cool.
- Yeah, and then that's also kind of a map
of how to run it on your own, right?
So maybe you're like, oh, I don't like Docker Compose,
I prefer my own version of something else,
but I'm gonna look at the Docker Compose
to see what it's doing and add the recipe.
So that recipe is still very useful
for people who have different ways.
- Sure, or just knowing, look, there has to be,
or maybe it's good if there's a Redis server.
Okay, well, I have Redis.
Let me just set it up to connect to that one, for example.
- Yes, I'm just gonna change that part of the recipe
because I already have that ingredient.
- Yeah, exactly, exactly.
Okay, so when I, let me zoom out a little here.
When you run the Docker container, it says,
you wait a moment, it says everything worked.
Go over to localhost 8088 and log in.
the super secure default password and username is adminadmin.
So you can change that, but, you know,
it's an easy way to get in there.
And what you get is you get some example dashboards
and some example charts, right?
- Yeah, and those are-
- It's mostly about the things we find when we get here.
So people know how to go explore when they get started.
- Right, and you probably want to zoom out a little bit
'cause I think the rendering here
is gonna look a little bit better.
It's kind of interesting too, 'cause you don't,
out of the box, you don't get the thumbnail back in.
So you don't get the pretty thumbnails, you know,
that will have a preset or that you can set up
if you spend a little bit more time
on setting up your salary backend
and getting all the thumbnails to compute in the backend.
But yeah, so what you get out of the box
is a set of very small datasets
and charts and dashboard built on top of
that you can navigate and play with.
If you really wanna get value and get a real POC,
you probably wanna connect to your real data warehouse,
probably not out of your local,
but get to a slightly more,
or maybe you have a copy of your data warehouse
or some data you wanna play with,
then you can connect here.
If you were to look at somewhere--
- Datasets, right?
- So datasets are like coming from your database connections
to someone to upper right, you have settings.
- I see.
- Right, so you could connect,
database connections are here.
So you could create a new database connection
on the upper right.
If you click, you'll see,
just a screen to connect to your database.
So you pick the database you wanna connect to,
you add your connection string,
and then you can start playing with your own data.
If you don't wanna play with your own data,
you can play with the data we provide, it's fairly limited.
We haven't spent a lot of cycles working on
adding the latest, most fun datasets to play with
with the best dashboard examples,
but it allows you to get started
and get a sense for what SuperSet can do.
- Yeah, so we have a couple of major building blocks.
We have dashboards, we have charts, we have datasets,
and we have the SQL IDE thing.
- That's right.
- Maybe I'll pull up a,
here we'll pull up a sales dashboard.
Nothing speaks, nothing screams BI more
than sales dashboard.
- That's right.
We just had to have a, you know, an example there,
but it loads like a few bar charts
and it's not like the best design dashboard.
It shows that we support-
- But it looks good.
Like there's a lot of, there's some beautiful stuff here.
- Yeah, you can do so much more.
I feel like our examples are dated.
You can do so much better with like super set
if you actually take a little bit more time,
we should work on our examples as a community,
you know, to have like really compelling data sets
to play with, but it gives a good overview.
And here, if you click on the dot, dot, dot for any chart,
so here for people who can't see the visual support
and click on edit chart.
So that will send you to our Explorer.
So we're in the dashboard, we're looking at a specific chart.
Then we just move to our chart editor.
that's very much like your exploration.
Here, you can click on a metric,
you can drag and drop different metrics.
I'm going to max and see what happens.
There we go.
If you were to click on View All Charts,
I don't know if you see that somewhere,
at the top middle somewhere,
there's all sorts of visualizations that are supported here.
You get a big list of all the visualization plugins
that ship with SuperSet today, all your common charts,
but also some geospatial stuff and some more advanced
and complicated charts.
- Nice.
- And do all sorts of things.
So that's, you know, and here maybe like just to do
a little bit of the flow of the demo,
apologies for people not watching and just looking at,
so hit cancel and then click on the upper right dot, dot, dot
so not settings, but the dot, dot, dot here.
So you can say, view the query or run in SQL lab
will allow you to go kind of step deeper.
Where now the SQL that happened to be running
behind this chart, now you can alter
and push your own analysis from this point on.
- Oh yeah, this is cool.
- So we went from a dashboard
to kind of your exploration session and into a SQL IDE.
So you can go deeper here and just like run your own analysis
It's a big playground for data.
- Yeah, and you get a little pull up your table
or your SQLAlchemy model, maybe it is, I'm not sure.
- They call it like a schema navigator.
So in this case, it's very much like you're navigating
your database kind of object, right?
So you can navigate your schemas
and see the tables and the views.
And then there's good auto-completes.
It's very much an IDE.
If you start typing, it will auto-complete
the table names and then the column names.
- Yeah, super cool.
You also get a query history.
That seems nice for if you're like playing around,
you're like, oh, five versions ago of typing in this.
I had the picture I wanted and now I know where to go, right?
- Yeah, totally.
So I think that for the people who speak SQL,
they can go deeper and run more complex analysis.
- Sure, yeah, very neat.
All right, well, maybe let's close it out
with a quick conversation on this
and then I know we're out of time.
I picked on Excel for having very poor source control options.
What's the story here about versioning and sharing and collaboration?
Yeah, so there's this thing in BI called Headless BI.
It's the ability to manage BI assets as code.
And so at Preset, we have built a CLI on top of the SuperSift API
that allows you to import and export objects
from and to the BI tool to the file system.
So it's really easy to say, I want to store this dashboard
or this set of dashboard or this set of object
and manage them as code.
So there's a CLI that allows you to push and pull
from the BI tool and from SuperSet into Git and GitHub.
- All right, let me see if I got this right.
So I might create a folder in it that is a GitHub repo,
or a Git repo rather,
then I would export all my stuff, commit that,
and then I would just like write over it
and keep committing those,
those would sort of track my changes.
And if I ever need to, I can re-instantiate
or rehydrate that thing out of the file set into SuperSet.
- Yeah, so there's more to it than that.
And I'm going to try to explain it well,
but once you say hit that eject button,
which would be exporting the BI assets as code,
then you get a collection of YAML files
that represents your chart, your datasets
and your database connection definition, right?
So your dashboard then is represented as code.
When you push things,
well, so first you can templateize things.
So it's YAML, so you can use Jinja,
which is a great Python package to template files.
So you can inject some templates into your BI tool.
If you were to say broadcast this object
to multiple superset instances,
or to say, I'm gonna do permutation of variation on a theme,
you can do that through templating.
And that's through the Preset CLI,
and you can push, as you push,
then there's a flag, I believe the flag is on by default,
where it will prevent people from updating the object
in the GUI saying, this object is managed as code,
the source code lives here for reference,
so you can click and go see the code on GitHub.
but then you can't save it because it's essentially read-only
and managed by source control.
I think in the future, we're looking to have a companion
for each superset workspace on preset to be able to have
the full history over time of what has changed,
so you can go and restore assets as they were a while ago.
Because there's always someone that's going to delete something
or delete a dashboard or change it in ways that are destructive
and people want to roll back, so it's possible to do that too.
Sure. It makes a lot of sense to have some kind of source control story.
But at the same time, because it's kind of a SaaS thing,
either self-hosted, your little baby SaaS, or at a preset,
it's kind of a shared asset that doesn't need to be synced
and pushed and pulled and cloned as much to allow people to work on it, right?
Yeah, so there's different things. I think the Google Docs approach, which is to keep a GUI
revision history and being able to see who changed what, when, is also valuable. And I'm sure we're
going to see that in the future of SuperSET too, being able to say, "I want to look at the history
of this dashboard from a GUI perspective." So that's something that has been requested and
than we'll have in the future.
So call it your Google Docs kind of GUI version.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
- The managing asset as code is a different use case, right?
If you have an embedded dashboard,
if you publish a certain dashboard
as part of your application,
and that's more the rigor,
like, oh, I wanna have it in source control,
I want a version, I want it, you know.
- Sure.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, it's kind of like having a DevOps team
versus someone keeps the server running.
All right, like there's different levels of maturity
around different things and companies and, you know.
- Yeah, people want that flexibility too,
like infrastructure as code, for instance, is great.
And, but that doesn't mean that everything should,
like if you and I want to go and create a AWS account
and spin up some resources,
maybe we don't need to start with Terraform script.
We can do that now.
And then you can generate the code later.
maybe you can say like, hey, AWS, can I generate
the Terraform code of all the stuff that I've done
in the past three days so that, you know,
GUI to code can flow.
- Right.
- And yet the other way of like, you know, code to GUI.
But yeah, I think it's important for this sort of tools,
managing critical assets to have these workflows
like GUI to code, code to GUI,
and be able to have the flexibility and best of both worlds
as you go up in your maturity lifecycle
and your need for rigor.
- Makes a lot of sense to me.
All right, well, we are well out of time here, Max.
So congrats again on creating such a cool project.
And I guess with Airflow as well,
it's not even the first one.
So very popular and it seems like
it's definitely taken off, it's great.
- Yeah, it's been super exciting,
like way beyond my expectation.
And I think really often like the original creators
get too much kind of recognition and reward
compared to like the rest of the community, right?
So what it takes for something like SuperSet to exist
is it takes 800 people contributing
and it takes an entire Slack community.
And really often we give a lot of credit
to the person who created the thing,
but you should look at like how bad SuperSet was
when I was like the first person,
when I've been the only person working on it.
And when it really took off
is when we saw like a set of really good contributors
coming in and pushing it to the next level.
So it's been rewarding.
It's awesome.
I definitely got some people excited about it
on the comments and the audiences.
This project has me stupid excited, which is lovely.
- Love to see that excitement, right?
Like a lot of this validation comes through usage and value
and people getting excited, contributing
and more like just using here.
Like we love to see people just say like,
hey, we're using this and getting tons of value.
- Yeah, go to the in the wild.
- Yeah, stick it to the--
- Put your stamp on it, right?
- I get like the communistic, like, you know,
Like together we can build better things
than vendors on their own can.
It's just like open source is a better way
to not only to collaborate and build software,
it's a better way to discover software,
adopt software and just like get to solutions.
- Very cool.
All right, well, before you get out of here,
final two quick questions.
If you're gonna write some code, what editor do you use?
- As I'm still a Vim person,
I feel like I need to modernize.
I'm not like a Vim is better than all the IDEs.
It's just muscle memory at this point.
It was just very common line and very kind of into Vim
and like my specific kind of a tune up for Vim.
And it's not because I think it's better.
It's just like habit, you know?
- Yeah, yeah, cool.
There's a funny guy who I think he's German.
He does this YouTube series making fun
of different programming languages and communities.
And then one is this guy, he talks about how he fought
in the VIM Emacs Wars.
Yeah, it's pretty good.
All right, so you're on the VIM side, fantastic.
And then-- - Yeah, but I'm not
on the side too, it's like, that's what I use
but at the same time, like, encourage people
to find something that works for them.
Then I talk about the power of muscle memory, right?
Like once you really know your tool set and the shortcuts,
it's like your computer becomes an extension
of your brain and your muscles and there's just a beauty
in that, so it's good to have a tool
that enables you and to have that self-training
of like, I'm gonna train my muscle memory
so I can do the things that I do all the time,
like without it. - Right.
Right, you think I want this to happen
and then it happens and you don't have to be conscious
of it happening, right, in your editor, like--
- Clicking around, I'll do the sequence of like six clicks
to do this thing in Photoshop all the time.
Why can't you just do like Command + Shift + R + B,
you know, like, do a sequence, it just happens magically.
- Yeah, absolutely.
And then notable PyPI package or other library found,
like this is awesome, people should know about.
- Yeah, so I wanted to talk about, so I live,
you know, we use SQL very heavily, you know,
as you saw, so if you're a data practitioner,
you write a lot of SQL.
I spend quite a bit of time writing tons of SQL
in Airflow, a little bit in dbt too, more recently.
So there's this like SQL linter that came out,
it's called SQL Fluff, it's been around for a little while.
People, so check out PyPI SQL Fluff.
There it is.
And it's a very configurable SQL linter fixer.
So, you know, like we all love like PEP 8
and things like black that are very deterministic
and opinionated.
I think we're not there in the SQL world.
People have not agreed on our PEP 8 equivalent for SQL.
So this is like highly configurable.
So you can agree with your team
on the set of like linting rules for your repo,
and then it can fix a lot of stuff for you.
So I think it helps if we're gonna manage mountains of SQL,
I don't like SQL that much,
but it seems like this generation of data teams
is gonna rely a lot on a lot of SQL.
Then having a linter, you know,
helps making that a little bit more bearable.
- Excellent, SQLfluff.com, very cool.
All right, final call to action.
people are excited about SuperSET,
they wanna get started, wanna play with it,
what do you tell them?
- pip install SuperSET, I mean, come to the GitHub repo,
check out superset.apache.org.
We haven't talked about the Apache Software Foundation too,
but we're supported by the Apache Software Foundation
in many ways, and then you should be able
to find tons of resources.
It is a little bit harder to get started than other things
'cause it's such a broad piece of software
that's like very, very layered.
We have a Slack, so I think there is a type of issue
that's probably called like starter issues
or I forgot the exact name of it.
So, and then we have a Slack to get involved
and I believe there in Slack,
there's a way to introduce yourself
and there's a bunch of channels that are more like,
how do I get started?
How do I contribute?
So there should be outlets for anyone
who wants to get involved to get connected.
If you fail at doing that, you can probably reach out to me directly on Twitter or elsewhere.
I might be able to do some minor stuff.
Yeah, there's a few people commit to the project, so there's got to be a lot out there.
Yeah, I mean, that's a thing though.
When a project gets bigger and there's more contributors, that doesn't mean it's necessarily
more welcoming and easier to get into.
There's more people, but sometimes there's not as clear of a...
If you don't have a BDFL, sometimes it's a little bit
harder to talk to a single person
and get the exact pointer that you need.
So I would say, just get on the Slack, talk to a few people,
think about how you want to get involved too,
and be clear about your intentions.
And then we'll be able to connect you
in the right place, the right person.
Fantastic.
All right.
Well, Max, thank you for being here.
Thanks for creating this cool project.
Looks like tons of people are getting value from it.
- Yeah, thank you for having me on the show too.
And I'm gonna go and look back at the episodes
and kind of, you know,
I'm always looking for good content too
and keeping in touch with the Python community too.
So I'm gonna go and dig in your archives there
and listen to a bunch of episodes.
- We have seven years almost every single week.
So there's a bunch of episodes back there.
So yeah.
- Awesome. - Thanks so much.
Yeah, see you later. - Thank you.
All right, take care.